---
date: 2022-08-30
title: "Episode 1"
linkTitle: "Episode 1"
description: "The debut of The Bootloader"
author: Paul Cutler ([@prcutler](https://twitter.com/prcutler))
---
# TBL E1
## Intro

### Version 1
Welcome to The Bootloader, I’m host 1 and I’m here with my cohost, host 2.

Here’s the way the show works.  Each episode host 2 and I will share a few things from around the web we found interesting and why.  We’ll limit each one to a few minutes  - no more than 5 - and we’ll also be keeping detailed show notes for you if case you want to learn more.

So let’s dive in! Host 2, what do you have to kickoff the first episode?

### Version 2

Host 1: Welcome to The Bootloader, I'm host 1.

Host 2: And I'm host 2.

Host 2: The show works like this:  Host 1 and I have each brought 3 things to share with you.  We'll spend a few minutes talking about each, but no more than five.  If you want to learn more, we have detailed show notes available at thebootloader.net and give us a follow on Twitter @thebootloader.

Host 2: Host 1, why don't you get us started.


## Paul
### tio
The first thing I wanted to share is a about a an open source tool called tio.  Martin Lund is the developer and I have a cool story about him, too.  tio just released version 2.0 on September 11th.

I’ve been using CircuitPython for a year or two and I didn’t know about tio until John Park featured it in late July in on his show, CircuitPython Parsec.  

Like most users, I used Mu to see any serial output or errors with my CircuitPython devices.  Even Adafruit’s advanced serial guide for Mac & Linux has you use screen.

Tio is a modern day replacement for the old linux tool screen.  I’ve using a Unix like operating system for too many years and this is perfect for someone like me who is comfortable dropping down into a terminal.  I can run also run tio in my IDE’s terminal.   It has one killer feature - auto-reconnect.  If I unplug my microcontroller and plug it back in, tio automatically reconnects.  I don’t have to look up what serial device it was or type the command to connect, it’s just there and running, just like my CircuitPython code is when I plug in a board.

But that’s not the only cool part.  The Monday after the episode Aird, Martin Lund joined the Adafruit Discord after he heard about John Park’s episode.  He answered some questions and asked for feedback.  It’s so cool to see open source collaboration like that in the open.

And when 2.0 came out on the 11th, Martin popped in Adafruit’s Discord to let folks know of the new release.  He didn’t have to do any of that, but what a way to go above and beyond.

It’s so cool to see open source collaboration happening in real time.  If you’re looking to level up your CircuitPython skills and move on from the Mu code editor, check out tio.



## Outro
Thank you for listening to The Bootloader with your hosts Paul Cutler and Tod Kurt.  Follow us on Twitter at @thebootloader. For show notes, transcriptions, and to support the show, visit thebootloader.net. See you next episode!