---
date: 2025-08-15
title: "CircuitPython Day 2025 Special Edition"
linkTitle: "CircuitPython Day 2025 Special Edition"
description: "The Bootloader LIVE on CircuitPython Day 2025"
author: Paul Cutler ([@prcutler](https://hachyderm.io/@prcutler))
---

## Introduction - Welcome to CircuitPython Day 2025

Welcome to The Bootloader, I’m Paul Cutler

And I’m Tod Kurt We’re coming at you live on the Adafruit YouTube channel for CircuitPython Day 2025.  If you haven’t heard of us, Paul and I host a podcast called The Bootloader.  Each episode we bring a few things to share and chat about each for a few minutes, but no more than about 5.  And today we’ve brought you some of our favorite things that have happened in the CircuitPython community in the last year.

You can learn more about us at thebootloader.net or find us wherever you get your podcasts.

(Paul) And if you want to chat with us live, you can find us in the live-broadcast chat channel on the Adafruit Discord at discord.gg/adafruit.

Tod, before we get started, I wanted to take a moment and give a shout-out to Anne Barela.  Anne is the editor of the Pyhon On Hardware weekly email and I don’t think we could do this show or my other podcast, The CircuitPython Show, without her and the newsletter.  It’s the best way to stay on top of everything related to Python and hardware.  I had the opportunity a couple years ago to help fill in for Anne when she was on vacation, and let me tell you, it’s a ton of work to stay connected in multiple communities and bring you all the news every week.  So Anne, from us to you - a big thank you.

Tod, what’s your first thing to share?

### Fonts in CircuitPython

One of the really cool things about CircuitPython is how easy it is to get a display
working.  And the underlying `displayio` framework makes it not matter if you're using
a TFT, OLED, ePaper, or LED matrix: your display code can be the same for all.

Another cool thing about CircuitPython is how easy it is to use custom fonts. [CircuitPython can
load custom BDF & PCF fonts](https://learn.adafruit.com/custom-fonts-for-pyportal-circuitpython-display/overview),
a format used for 30+ years on Unix systems.  And there are tools to convert the more
modern TrueType or OpenType fonts to these formats. And a great Learn Guide!  But doing this
conversion can be kind of a drag.

So I was very excited when last year, Jeff Epler of Adafruit released the
["circuitpython-fonts" repository](https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython-fonts/).
This is a git repository with a large collection of converted fonts in a variety of useful sizes.

In this repo, each font is a laid out as separate python packages, with the whole repo being
an package bundle.  This means it's easy to add to the `circup` package management tool,
and that installing a new font onto your board is as easy as `circup install font_free_serif_bold_12`.
(This also means you can put your needed fonts in your project's `requirements.txt`)

[demo adding a font on T-Display S3]

"For instance, here's a CircuitPython board. And here I am adding a new font."

[show full demo running]

"And here's a sketch running showing off a handful of the large display fonts available"

* [CircuitPython fonts repository](https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython-fonts) with `circup` instructions
*[CircuitPython BDF & PCF font Learn Guide](https://learn.adafruit.com/custom-fonts-for-pyportal-circuitpython-display/overview)

### The CircuitPython extension for VS Code

Late last November, Will Merkens released version 0.2 of the CircuitPython extension for VS Code.  This is a fork of the original extension by Joe Devivo, which hadn’t been updated since late 2023.  A thank you to Joe Devivo for creating this extension and licensing it under the MIT license. That allowed Will Merkens to fork and a big shout-out for taking this on - it’s never easy to fok someone’s project, figure out someone else’s code, and then add to it.  And every time CircuitPython has had a major release, the extension has been updated.

* [CircuitPython VS Code extension v1](https://github.com/joedevivo/vscode-circuitpython) by Joe Devivo
* [CircuitPython v2 for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=wmerkens.vscode-circuitpython-v2) by Will Merkens
[CircuitPython v2 for VS Code source code](https://github.com/wmerkens/vscode-circuitpython-v2)

If you bring up the Command Palette with Shift-Command (or Control)-P, and type `CircuitPython` you can see a list of commands you can run.  You can update the bundle, open or close the serial monitor, or as of the latest version of the extension, update libraries with some functionality inpsired by `circup`.  Listing libraries will show you what’s installed on your device; update all libraries will update them to the latest version similar to `circup update —all`, and show available libraries provides you with a drop down of every library available for download.

With the right board selected, you get code completion - for example, `board.` brings up all the available pins on the board.

You can interact with the serial console and drop down into a REPL if you want, or hit ctrl-c and ctrl-d like you’d expect.


### Fruit Jam MIDI Tester

The Fruit Jam is like a little computer, with its ability to drive monitors and
having USB ports.  Acting as a USB host is pretty demanding, because in addition
to doing most of the USB protocol, you also need to do the class driver
(e.g. keyboard, mouse, serial, etc).  I'm mostly interested in USB-MIDI devices,
so I was really excited to see all the stuff [Sam Blenny has been up to on the Adafruit-Playground site](https://adafruit-playground.com/u/SamBlenny/), particularly his Fruit Jam USB Host MIDI Tester.

[demo USB MIDI tester]

Also very cool is his Portable MIDI Synth, which turns the Fruit Jam into a
full battery-powered synthesizer once you plug in USB MIDI keyboard.

* [Fruit Jam USB Host MIDI Tester](https://adafruit-playground.com/u/SamBlenny/pages/fruit-jam-usb-host-midi-tester)
* [Fruit Jam Portable MIDI Synth](https://adafruit-playground.com/u/SamBlenny/pages/fruit-jam-portable-midi-synth)
* [Fruit Jam USB Gamepad Demo](https://adafruit-playground.com/u/SamBlenny/pages/fruit-jam-two-gamepad-demo)


### FruitTris
* [Cooper Dalrymple's homepage](https://relic.dcdalrymple.com)
* [Fruitris GitHub repository](https://github.com/relic-se/Fruit_Jam_Fruitris)
* [Fruitris blog post](https://relic.dcdalrymple.com/fruitris-tetris-on-the-adafruit-fruit-jam/)
* [Fruitris demo on Show & Tell](https://www.youtube.com/live/ie0D5Acjne4?feature=shared&t=762)
* [Cooper on The CircuitPython Show May 5th, 2025](https://www.circuitpythonshow.com/@circuitpythonshow/episodes/cooper-dalrymple)

### CircuitPython Workflows, what are they?

Did you know you can program CircuitPython devices FOUR different ways?

I'm sure you're aware of the one of the original differences between CircuitPython and Micropython:
CircuitPython only supported devices with native USB. This meant they could emulate a USB storage device
and provide us with the CIRCUITPY drive we normally use to save our "code.py" file on.  This restriction
was great though! With only a text editor and a terminal program, you could write CircuitPython programs.
Got an old Windows 95 laptop with Notepad.exe and Putty?  You can code on a CircuitPyton board. It's great.
(and in fact that's not too different from my normal setup of `tio` in a terminal window and `emacs` in another)

[show two terminal windows on-screen perhaps]

This native USB coding workflow was the original, but there are three others!  For ESP32 (non-S2/S3) devices,
there was the "Web workflow", where CircuitPython would start up entire web server with file transfer capability
and serial emulation. It's pretty amazing that it all happens in the background, but it does take CPU resources
that you might want, so I often have it turned off.

There's also a Bluetooth BLE workflow for nRF52-based devices, which is very cool, as it means you can write
CircuitPython code on your phone!  I've not tried it much.

Both of these wireless workflows can be frustrating if your reception isn't perfect.
So now this year, there's a "USB serial" workflow that works for any CircuitPython device that only has a serial
but not native USB, like the original ESP32 devices.  This is great!  If you've used Thonny with Micropython,
you're familiar with this kind of interaction. It's perfect for the new tiny "SparkleMotion" ESP32-based LED driver
boards that just came out.

[show thonny perhaps]

I've not seen much talk about this new "USB serial" workflow in the docs, but it's really handy for these boards.
And thankfully, the web-based [code.circuitpython.org](code.circuitpython.org) site works with this and all the workflows.

[show code.circuitpython.org doing an edit on a SparkleMotion, flashing some LEDs]

- https://docs.circuitpython.org/en/latest/docs/workflows.html
- https://code.circuitpython.org/
