---
date:
  created: 2025-10-26
title: "Episode 25 - TBD"
draft: true
---

Published: October 26, 2025

Follow the show on [Mastodon](https://www.circuitpythonshow.com/@thebootloader/follow) or [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/thebootloader.net).

### Faster Raspberry Pis by ditching SD card w/ [rpi-clone](https://github.com/geerlingguy/rpi-clone) (Tod #1)

If you use Raspberry Pis regularly and you're still running them off microSD card,
have I got a treat for you.  Short version: use `rpi-clone` to a USB thumbdrive.
You may know that Raspberry Pis running from SD cards get slower over time.
SD cards can get flakey with age too.  But SD cards are so easy to get a Pi going!
But with a modern thumbdrive and the `rpi-clone` script, my Raspberry Pi 4 is
faster than it's ever been.

I run a small group of Raspbery Pis for testing of my products and various
CircuitPython builds. One RasPi 4 has four different CircuitPython boards permanently
hooked up to it to test how different CircuitPython firmwares work.
I noticed this server was getting increasingly slow. Git checkouts took twice as long,
even logging in via `ssh` took a few seconds. There were no errors in the
logs and the microSD was a high-endurance one. I had replaced it only a year or so ago.
But I have been using this Pi a lot more lately too.

I know I know, all the "real" hackers have been booting their Pis off external drives
forever. What took me so long?

I imagined it would be a daunting task, needing extra components like an NVME hat
or an ungainly external drive enclosure hanging off the back. Fortunately, I'd just
seen a video by the awesome [Jeff Geerling](https://www.youtube.com/@JeffGeerling)
where he off-handedly showed his `rpi-clone` script to turn a SD card-based Raspbery Pi
into one that boots off external storage.   Seemed easy, let's try it!

I got one of those small USB 3.1 thumbdrives. They're pretty fast.
I used a $15 Samsung 128GB one that is just a nubbin when plugged in.
With it was plugged in, I downloaded the `rpi-clone` script and ran it according
to the README. It chugged, formatting the thumbdrive and copying over the Pi's
filesystem. When done, I powered-down the Pi, removed the microSD, ta-da: it boots off the new drive!

This Raspberry Pi 4 server I've been using for five years feels like a whole new computer.
It's like I got a free CPU upgrade. And to prevent this thumdrive from degrading faster, I'm going
to be putting the logs directory into a RAM disk using `log2ram`. The constant
writing of log files really wears out solid-state storage the fastest.  I'm
also looking into tiny SSDs for my other Pi servers. For my Pi 5, there's the official
NVME SSD hat I may try. I'm now on a quest for the tiniest SSD solution for Pi4s.

Links:
  - [rpi-clone](https://github.com/geerlingguy/rpi-clone) - easily clone running Pi boot disk to other drive
  - [Samsung Fit 128GB thumb drive I used](https://amzn.to/3IEwfnQ) (affiliate link)
  - [Migrating a RPI from SD card to SSD storage](https://allthingsempty.wordpress.com/2025/09/09/migrating-a-rpi-from-sd-card-to-ssd-storage-my-how-to/)
  - [Jeff Geerling's Youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@JeffGeerling)
  For more performance improvements:
  - [log2ram](https://github.com/azlux/log2ram) - put /var/log in RAM disk tmpfs
  - [Read-only filesystem for increased Pi](https://www.dzombak.com/blog/2024/04/pi-reliability-reduce-writes-to-your-sd-card/)


### [InvenTree](https://inventree.org) (Paul #1)

Back in [Episode 17](ep017.md) I share [Inventory](https://github.com/dunkelstern/inventory), an open source inventory system for makers and manufacturers that had just released their 1.0 release.

Thanks to Alec Delaney (aka Tekktrik), I came across an app called [InvenTree](https://inventree.org), a play on the word Inventory, which also just released their 1.0 release after 8 years of active development.

Inventree includes a number of features, including:

* Organize your parts and sort them into different categories for your parts
* You can manage suppliers related to each part
* Stock locations, which are real world physical location for your parts
* Bill of material management, allowing you to define a list of parts to make an assembly
* Custom reports about your inventory based on a number of templates and it uses HTML templates to create PDF reports for you

Inventree also includes a robust [plugin ecosystem](https://inventree.org/extend/plugin/).  There are plugins maintainted by the core team as well as the community. There are plugins for just about everything - there’s integration for Digikey and Mouser, there’s a plugin to locate your physical stock locations with WLED, which is pretty neat, and a bunch of plugins to use with your printer.

Inventree is written in Python using the Django web framework and plugins can be written in Python, too.

There’s also excellent documentation covering everything you might want to know.  It’s detailed and covers all of the features.  And lastly, if you want to take Inventree for a spin before installing it, they have a full featured demo instance.  I logged in and tried it out and I came away really impressed.

* [Inventree GitHub repository](https://github.com/inventree/inventree)

### Framework 12 laptop (Tod #2)

If you're looking for a Linux laptop, I highly recommend the Framework 12.
As the name implies, it's a 12" laptop. You can buy it fully-assembled or as a
"kit", where "kit" means you get to install the RAM, SSD,
and expansion cards (more on that in a bit). The assembly is easy and gives
you the chance to see the inside of the laptop and the care that went into it.
You can see that Framework designed the whole machine for repairability. In fact,
on their older Framework 16, they just introduced a new AMD Ryzen mainboard with
NVIDIA RTX GPU you could swap in.

So to "assemble" my new laptop, I got a beer ready and everything.
I mean, I say "everything", but they included the one screwdriver needed.
I only got about two sips in before I was done.
You install the RAM & SSD from the top, by lifting the keyboard. It connects via
pogo pins and magnets so no cables to worry about. Just snap them in, then snap on
the keyboard. The keyboard is then secured by captive screws on the bottom. It's
a really nice design and even with all that, the laptop is still only as
thick as my main MacBook Pro. Apple, replaceable SSD & RAM!

There are many Youtube videos that deep-dive into this laptop, its features
and how it performs, so I won't go into those aspects. Suffice to say,
it performs as well as other Intel i5 laptops and costs about the same.

In Linux it's fast and does all the things I need it of it:
web browsing, video playing, code editing, compiling, PDF viewing, etc.
The recommended standard Ubuntu 25 install works
great, with all peripherals recognized and when I plug in class-compliant USB
devices like USB audio or MIDI adapters, those work as expected.
I've been using it for a little over a month and haven't had a problem.

There are two things about this laptop that really stand out to me, and I've
been trying to do Linux on laptops since the 1990s.

(Anyone remember linux-on-laptops.com? It was where we huddled in the cold,
sharing campfire stories of almost getting audio working on corporate
Toshiba Satellites or Dell Inspirons. Now we have Linux-first companies like
Framework, MNT, and System76.  But if you're scarred from past attempts to
get Linux working on a laptop and you have an old Thinkpad or Dell from the last
few years, there's a good chance it'll work great today and seem much faster than
the Windows that was on it)

Anyway, the first really cool thing about the Framework 12, besides it being just fully working
modern laptop on Linux, is the four expansion card slots on the sides.
These are essentialy recessed USB-C ports and the available expansion cards
either expose that USB-C port or USB-A or Ethernet, HDMI,
extra audio, SD card, or storage. It's really neat. It totally gives that
"I'm plugging in a cartridge" vibe and lets you customize the laptop how you want.
My current set of cards is two USB-C, a USB-A, and HDMI out.  Any USB-C card
is also a charge port.

The other neat thing about the Framework 12 is that the screen folds over
onto the back and it turns into a tablet. And the touchscreen even works on
Linux! Even though most of my uses aren't touch-compatible, it's really handy
to have up an instructional video or schematic on the "tablet" screen while I'm working.
They just introduced a stylus that works when the laptop is in tablet mode.
I don't have this yet and don't even know if it's supported under Linux, but it's $60
so I may just get it to see what it can do.

Oh, and KiCad absolutely flies on this thing.  Using a stylus with KiCad on Linux
would seem very sci-fi to me.

This review isn't sponsored in any way. I'm just happy to have a good
portable Linux box made by a company that cares about repairability and
upgradeability.  Thanks Framework

Links:
- [Framework 12 laptop](https://frame.work/laptop12)
- [Framework expansion cards](https://frame.work/marketplace/expansion-cards)
- [My "live" assembly thread of my Framework 12 laptop that's only 3 posts because it was so easy](https://bsky.app/profile/todbot.com/post/3lwhvt6yuq22c)

### [Channels DVR](https://getchannels.com) (Paul #2)

This next one is one of my favorite pieces of tech in my house and it just keeps getting better.  I cut the cord and got rid of cable TV probably close to fifteen years ago.  I’ve tried a number of solutions over the years since then for watching live TV with an antenna, including MythTV, Kodi and Emby, but there is one piece of software that I think does it better than any of them, and that’s an app called Channels.

First, you’ll need an antenna to get over the air stations that you hook up to a device called the HD HomeRun, which is a digital network tuner.  You plug the antenna into that, and the TV signal is now available over your network.  Antenna prices vary, and an HD HomeRun box will run you about $100 - $150 depending on which model you choose.  If you visit RabbitEars.info, it will show you a list of all the channels in your area that you can get via antenna - and you’ll probably be surprised how many channels there are.

Next, you’ll need to subscribe to Channels for $80 a year, which is $10 more a year than Plex.  Then you [download the Channels DVR server software,](https://getchannels.com/dvr-server/#dvr-install) which is available for Windows, Mac, Linux, Docker, and a number of network attached storage devices, including Synology, Netgear, TrueNAS and a lot more.

You can watch Channels on your TV using an AppleTV, Android TV, or an Amazon Fire Stick. The apps to connect to Channels and watch it on your phone or tablet on iOS or Android are all free.  And they make it super easy to watch it on the go away from home and just stream it over the internet to your device.

But it’s not just a DVR - you can manage all of your personal media on it as well.  I have a large physical media, with a ton of DVDs and Blu-Rays I’ve ripped, and I’ve imported them all into Channels.

Channels continues to innovate:
* Virtual Channels
* Multiview
* Skip intros and credits

There may be cheaper solutions out there for your DVR, but few are as polished as Channels.  I’ve been using it for years and it’s one of my favorite apps that I use.

### TBD (Tod #3)
Insert text here

### TBD (Paul #3)
Insert text here
