---
date:
  created: 2026-6-08
title: "Episode 33 - Insert title here"
---

## Welcome to the show

Published: June 8th, 2026

In this episode, Tod and Paul discuss...

Follow the show on [Mastodon](https://www.circuitpythonshow.com/@thebootloader/follow) or [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/thebootloader.net).

We have stickers! [Request a free sticker here.](https://forms.gle/tSsyyREgjA38pUgv6) (US Only, sorry!)

[Full transcript available here](../../transcripts/2026/033-transcript.md).

## Listen to the podcast

Insert iframe from Castopod here.

## Show Notes

### freemediaheckyeah (fmhy.net) (Tod #1)
["freemediaheckyeah"](https://fmhy.net/) or [fmhy.net](https://fmhy.net/)

When I was younger, the Internet's promise was that it was to be this infinite
playground of all of humanities knowledge. For the last decade or more instead
it's seemed like a small collection of members-only big-box stores. 
That's not very techno utopian! 

But I learned of a great site that gives me that hopeful frission of maybe 
seeing all of humanity's output. It's called "FMHY.net" for "Free Media Heck Yeah".
It's a hand-curated categorized repository (sort of like Yahoo of old) of all
kinds of free software, videos, audio, video games, tips & tricks, and more.

For instance, there's a huge "Books" section that includes links to various 
free ebook repositories (btw, did you know The Internet Archive has a huge 
collection of ebooks? They're all free and the modern ones you "check out" for
a bit like a library book).  There's links to a bunch of different ebook reader
apps to find the one you like.  But there's also these great lists of audiobooks,
comics, STEM books, history, and academic paper repositories.  All free. 

And in the "Gaming" section, there's a long list of places to find abandoned games.
Ever wanted to play the Windows 7 version of Minesweeper? Or play old
Commodore 64 games? This site has links for you!

Of course there's a "Linux/macOS" section that leads to the various 
Linux distros and how to install them, but it also contains a bunch of great
general commandline HOWTO guides. A favorite I found is called "You Don't Need GUI"
that's showing you how to do things in the Terminal you might do with a GUI. 

And yes, the FMHY site does also have sections on torrenting, which is a 
very efficient way to support distrution of free media, but it can also be used 
to acquire not-exactly-legal copies of media. Be warned and be informed! 
Torrenting is not illegal and it's a great way to take the pressure of
big downloads from the kind people hosting them. It's a great way of
getting a full copy of Wikipedia, for instance! 

### Flipper One (Paul #1)

The Flipper One is a follow-up to the popular Flipper Zero. The Flipper team is building the Flipper one as a fully open Linux cyberdeck, including support in the mainline Linux kernel for it. They're also building their own operating system on top of Debian, called FlipperOS.

* [Flipper Zero](https://flipper.net)
* [All the fun things to do with a Flipper Zero](https://lifehacker.com/everything-flipper-zero-can-and-cant-do?test_uuid=zXnWOLjQQwkYjMVwrvo5w&test_variant=A)
* [Flipper One](https://blog.flipper.net/flipper-one-we-need-your-help/)
* [Collabora's work on the Flipper One](https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/news-and-events/collabora-flipper-opening-up-the-rk3576.html)

### "You Don't Need an RTOS"  (Tod #2)

[You Don't Need an RTOS](https://www.embeddedrelated.com/showarticle/1636.php) ([Part 2](https://www.embeddedrelated.com/showarticle/1697.php), [Part 3](https://www.embeddedrelated.com/showarticle/1653.php), [Part 4](https://www.embeddedrelated.com/showarticle/1662.php))

If you program embedded boards with Arduino or CircuitPython,
you'll inevitably hear the acryonym "RTOS" or "Real-time OS". 
How it's what you should *really* be using for your code. 
If you're not using an RTOS, then you're just a pretender. 
But relax, there are few cases where you *need* one. 
Nathan Jones on Embedded Related wrote a blog post series 
titled "You Don't Need An RTOS" describing the problem that RTOSes
solve and some simpler alternative techniques.
The series is focused on embedded C/C++ but the techniques and concepts
are valuable for any language you use to program little boards. 

In a Real-Time Operating System, tasks can have critical time constraints.
When scheduled, you can place guarantees on not only how often that task gets run,
but how long it's allowed to run. The OS will ensure every task gets
its time slot. If your task goes over, it gets killed.
Normal OSes are "best effort" but real-time OSes are "guaranteed effort". 
In a car, you must guarantee the antilock brake sensor be read
exactly every 500 NANOseconds. In a Mars lander, reaction thrusters must be 
fired exactly every 64 milliseconds. There can be no pauses for file writes
or other tasks taking over. RTOSes keep us alive. 

So RTOSes are great and we should always use them, right? Not really. They
add a bunch of complexity to your codebase. Is that warranted? 
If your project is a button with a display triggering a servo, definitely not.
How about a combination BLE + USB Macropad with rotary encoder? Nope, RTOS not needed.

Listen, I used to work with aerospace hardware. And now I play around making
synthesizers in CircuitPython and Arduino. In that gradient, there are very
very few cases when I've actually needed an RTOS. There are some where
it's easier because the SDK I'm using is based on one.  
For instance, with the ESP32 WiFi chip, their ESP-IDF SDK uses the
open source FreeRTOS project and that makes it somewhat easier to deal with
events in an Internet-based device. 

But most of the time I use what the blog post calls a "superloop".  
This means instead of adding the complexity of an RTOS scheduler to your code, 
just put everything in the main loop.  Chips are fast and you're almost never
blocking for very long. If you need a predictable rate (for a sensor or actuator),
maybe just check the internal time and act periodically.  
This is sometimes called the "blink without delay" approach from a popular 
Arduino example showing how to blink an LED without blocking the main loop.

If you do need fast response time (like for certain I/O devices), 
then you'll start using into hardware interrupts. If you're using a library
for the I/O device, it'll likely set up those you can continue on superlooping.

This superloop approach for your code is how you *have* to be in CircuitPython
and are encouraged to be in Arduino, as both have background tasks they run
on your behalf. And they control the interrupt allocation of chip.
Usually, this is a good thing! In CircuitPython, you don't have 
to worry about setting up interrupts and DMA buffers for doing audio output,
high-speed serial, and USB. It all just works, out of the box. 
And while you can subvert it in Arduino, it's easy to get yourself in trouble.

In many ways, CircuitPython and MicroPython have taken on the
aspects of an OS, but not an RTOS. There are some actions like large
I2C or SPI data transfers to displays that just block the CPU. This is pretty 
gross to the user and there's not much we can do.  

Moving to Arduino or an RTOS wouldn't fix the problem if it's due to a low-level
device driver that doesn't or can't parcel out large data transfers.  Usually
the solution is to delve deeper into the code and that's hard. 

This blog post resonated because I've long heard claims that RTOSes will
solve our problems. And it's really that RTOSes can change who owns the problem.
Some RTOSes are like full-fledged OSes with device drivers written with 
real-time in mind, instead of being just real-time schedulers like FreeRTOS. 
In this case, the RTOS can give you new features, as device drivers you didn't 
have before.  But there's now the complexity of getting the RTOS configured
correctly and the mental complexity of learning it.

There's been a lot of interest in Zephyr lately and it will interesting to
see what kind of tradeoffs we see as we all get more experienced with it.  
But for now, don't worry so much about it.  
See how far you can get with a superloop.

### Firefox adds Web Serial (Paul #2)

If you’ve ever wanted to plug in your microcontroller and use the web to install new firmware or code, your only choice up until now has been to use a Chromium-based browser like Chrome, Microsoft Edge or Vivaldi.  But as of late May, Mozilla has joined the party and now supports Web Serial in Firefox with help from Adafruit.

Web Serial is a web API that uses Javascript to read and write to serial devices, like microcontoller boards or 3D printers. It’s been available for years in Chrome and it’s nice to see Adafruit and Mozilla partnering up to deliver this. For example, if you visit [CircuitPython.org’s Download section and pick almost any ESP32 based board](https://circuitpython.org/board/adafruit_feather_esp32s3_reverse_tft/), there will be an option to download the UF2 or BIN files with the firmware, or to “open installer” and you can do it right over the Web.

* [Mozilla WebSerial announcement](https://blog.mozilla.org/en/firefox/firefox-web-serial-adafruit/)
* [Mozilla engineering blog post about WebSerial](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2026/05/web-serial-support-in-firefox/)

### Some cool project (Tod #3)
Tod shares insert-link-here, a cool project by some cool people.

### Achordion (Paul #3)
Paul shares something he finds cool.
