---
date: 2024-12-02
title: "Supercon 2024"
linkTitle: "Episode 15 - December 2, 2024"
description: "Supercon 2024"
author: Paul Cutler ([@prcutler](https://hachyderm.io/@prcutler))
---

{Intro to Supercon here}

Supercon is now in it’s eighth year.  How long have you been going to Supercon?
* What’s the biggest thing that’s changed over that period?

Supercon is known for their conference badges.  I understand they did something a little different this year - tell me about it.

### About Supercon badges

Generally Supercon conference badges are PCBs with complex circuitry that is both visually
interesting and presents a sort of puzzle to the attendees. For some, the conference is an
entire weekend of hacking the badge: figuring it out and makig it do something cool.

Past badges have ranged from an FPGA that ran Linux, a 4-bit "retro" computer you programmed with switches, a virtual vectorscope, and a mesh networking chat keyboard.

Another aspect to badges has been add-ons, codified now into a sort of standard called "SAO"
-- simple add-on. It's a 6-pin connector that provides power, an I2C bus, and two pins of GPIO for whatever you want. Most add-ons just use power and light up in some cool way.

These SAO badge add-ons are pretty smalll: about 2" on a side.
And the size and format allows for easy exploration of PCB art.

So this year's badge was really just a holder, a platform, to show off SAOs.
It has six SAO sockets on the front and a PicoW and batteries on the back.
It also came with a small collection of starter SAOs to display immediately.

But the real fun came as people gave out and traded SAOs all during the conference.

### And your simple add on board was included for most attendees?  What was it?

[TouchwheelSAO](https://github.com/todbot/TouchwheelSAO) based off my [touchwheel0](https://github.com/todbot/TouchwheelSAO) board and my many other capacitive touch projects.
... add more ...

### Tod, what was your favorite project you saw at Supercon?

For me, the [Circuit Graver by Zach Friedlin](https://hackaday.io/project/197182-the-circuit-graver) ([post on Hackaday](https://hackaday.com/2024/11/06/rapid-prototyping-pcbs-with-the-circuit-graver/))

Zach gave a talk on this, but on the DesignLab stage. Those videos aren't streamed immediately to Youtube. We'll have to wait for Hackaday to upload it. It's worth a watch!

The Circuit Graver is essentially a computer-controlled drag-knife that can cut through copper-clad boards.
The result is a lot like CNC milled PCBs, but it's *much* faster.
And the cutting bit is not wee little drill bit that snaps when you look at it wrong.

Zach is also a friend. I've been seeing him make crazy circuits with just carving copper boards for many years. It's neat to see him extend this to computer control.

### Paul, what was your favorite project you saw at Supercon?

A few talks I enjoyed, starting with my favorite:

## Jorvon Moss (Odd-Jayy) & Shawn Hymel
This talk will showcase a collaborative project that demonstrates full voice interaction on a Digit companion robot and how a large language model (LLM) made this possible.

[Giving Robotic Friends a Voice:  Jorvon Moss & Shawn Hymel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uitqFyHD-QQ)

* Jorvon has been working on robots for about 8 years.  
* His latest robot, is Digit.  Must be wearable, good and comfy, unique design, and the ability to be upgraded.
  * Neat design - he used mangets in the robot and metal plates in his clothes to anchor Digit to him
* Wanted to integrate ChatGPT to be able to have a conversation with Digit, but that wouldn’t work as Jay needs to be mobile, like going to a conference like Supercon.
* The Raspberry Pi didn’t work, as the Lama 3 8B model from Meta fit, but it was a 30-60 second wait for an answer when talking to the large language model
* The Nvidia Jetson Orin Nano worked, but it’s much more expensive than a Pi at around $500
* Shawn explains how the wake word detection works with the LLM in a docker container and the text to speech in a separate docker container
* Working on prompt engineering - meaning it gives the robot personality.  Odd Jay has used Southern and passive agressive, saying things like “Bless your heart” which is not used in a nice way down South.

The talk and the demo was great - check out the video to see Digit in action and it even tells a joke.  Learn more at github.com/ShawnHymel/hopper-chat

### Solving the Last Mile With 3D-printed Packaging
### Christina Cyr
This talk explores the complexities of designing product packaging while the product’s design is still evolving. Experience the story of how one maker designed and 3D-printed her own packaging and the lessons she learned along the way.

[Supercon 2024 - Christina Cyr - Solving the Last Mile With 3D-printed Packaging](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EC1JbWsBb1M)

* Christina Cyr is the CEO of dTOOR and The Cyrcle Phone
* Electrical engineer
* Dunnage - the packaging *inside* the box
  * Tissue paper
  * Plastic bag
  * Peanuts
  * Buuble wrap
  * Molded / folder cardboard (in most smartphones today)
* What can small manufacturers do?
  * Handmade cardboard molds
* PCB, Enclosure, Packaging
  * Could the enclosure and pckaging made out of the same material and is recycled / biodegradable
  * Ended up going ewith biodegradable corn / rice based PLA material for 3D printers
* Challenges
  * Typical CAD software not used for designing packaging, but there are two specialty programs that do CAD design for packaging (ArtiosCAD and Kasemake)
  * Can’t just scale your product design to allow for packaging
  * Soft TPU is a pain
    * Can’t print soft TPU in the Bambu or Prusa, but could print on a Creality printer
  * Lesson learned: Could have shipped with bubble wrap that is made from 80% recycled nylon and is stronger than regular bubble wrap

Microcontrollers Are Just Radios in Disguise - Charles Lohr
This talk explores ways to leverage every cycle of underpowered microcontrollers to get them doing the work of parts ten times their price, including operations normally done with dedicated radio hardware.

[Hackaday Supercon 2024 - Microcontrollers Are Just Radios in Disguise - Charles Lohr](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V57f5YltIwk)

In his intro, Charles shares he loves exploring what microcontrollers are capable of without wads of abstractions.

* Charles has a few rules to his hardware hacking, but the one to take away is using a microcontroller to do what the original chip designers expect to be impossible. 
* Fan of the ATTiny85
  * Used it to transmit radio signals using GPIO
* Toolbox - cannot use the built-in radios, like wifi on the ESP8266
  * Digitally controlled oscillator
  * Frequency Modulation (FM)
  * Dithering
  * PLL for Frequency Mulitplication
  * PWM for output
  * Harmonic output
* Wants to transmit NTSC video using these tools - much more complicated than sending FM
* Moving to the ESP 8266
  * No PWM is the challenge, but does have I2S, used for audio
  * Can play back bitstreams and broacasting NTSC black and white video just worked
  * Challenge was to get color video working and using a simulator, figured out the NTSC harmonics and reflections that allowed it
* Could they transmit LoRa on a microcontroller without a LoRa radio? Lora stands for long range - it sends radio packets at 900MHz 
  * The ESP32-S2 didn’t work, but 2 chips di: the ch32v203 and esp8266 (not using the radio) using PWM
  * Wrote his own LoRa stack to work with LoRaWAN
  * Could send packets up to 1/2 a kilometer away
  * Eventually did get the ESP32-S2 working over 2.5 kilometers away
* Transmitting is the “easy” part, could he figure out receiving and figure out the timing?
  * Used the ch32v003 at $0.10 each
  * Figured it out, and had to figure out why is it working and why is it so weak
  * Could pick up the signal at 500 feet without any radio hardware
  * Ended up using the ch32v203 to create the receiver as it was slightly faster and needed for tuning the AM frequency

### Wish I could have seen:

### [Presented by DigiKey] Mini Robot Jam. Build Hard. Drive Hard.
### Paul Beech
You’ll be given a neat kit of tiny robot parts, and a garage of materials and sensors to build your sweetest ride. Learn how to make the RP2350 at its heart rock ‘n’ roll in MicroPython. Then pit it against obstacles to see how well your code works in real life.
### X1Plus: an unusual custom firmware for a consumer 3D printer
### Joshua Wise
In this talk, we’ll laugh together about some classic IoT exploits, puzzle over patching a compiled monolithic firmware, and even take the opportunity to be a little hopeful about whether vendors will ever get the message about user freedoms.

...

### Favorite SAO(s) (Tod)?

  First, check out all the amazing [SAO contest submissions](https://hackaday.io/submissions/supercon-8-sao-contest/list) and this
  [hackaday.io SAO list by Dave Darko](https://hackaday.io/list/165860-simple-add-on-badges)

  The [winner of the Hackaday SAO contest](https://hackaday.com/2024/11/04/supercon-2024-badge-add-on-winners/) really won me over too.
  It's a full digital multimeter that looks like a tiny Fluke meter. It's got probes

### Favorite SAO(s) (Paul)?

A few of Paul’s favorites:
* Etch SAO (tiny Etch-a-sketch)
* SAO Digital Multimeter (Best overall) by Thomas Plummer
* Instant Arcade’s Pac-man SAO (ineligible due to using last years badge) (SMD challenge winner)
* Steven, a Simon clone - which uses Todbot’s SAO!
* Wish I could have seen:
  * Turntable SAO
  * Marvel X-Men SAO


...

### What was your favorite talk that people should be on the lookout for when the video is released?

[Chris Wilson recently shared](https://cdwilson.dev/articles/hackaday-supercon-2024/?utm_source=pocket_shared) about his first time to Supercon and included some tips for new folks. What advice would you have for a newcomer?
