---
date: 2025-03--3
title: "TBD"
linkTitle: "Episode x - Date"
description: "Episode 18"
author: Paul Cutler ([@prcutler](https://hachyderm.io/@prcutler))
---

## Welcome to the show

Tod and Paul welcome guest Brent Rubell of Adafruit Industries.

Follow the show on [Mastodon](https://www.circuitpythonshow.com/@thebootloader/follow) or [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/thebootloader.net). 
Episode transcript is available here.

## Listen to the podcast

Insert iframe from Castopod here.

## Show Notes

### Brent #1

### Tod's Pick #1: Some cool project
Tod shares insert-link-here, a cool project by some cool people.

### 3D Printed Records (Paul #1)

Paul thought he found the perfect story for this episode, but there's a catch, which he shares at the end.

### Brent #2

### Tod #2

### Podcast Later (Paul #2)

You may be familiar with read it later apps like Instapaper or Pocket.  These apps allow you to save an article on 
the web to their service and read it later, with the ads and extra stuff you find on a website stripped off.  I've been 
using Pocket for years and love it.

Michael Kennedy, a Python Software Fellow and host of the Talk Python to Me podcast has created a new service called 
[Podcast Later](https://podcastlater.com) that does something similar, except it creates a personal podcast for you 
of the articles you save on the web. You download one of the open source bookmarklets and when you come across an 
article you want to save, you just bookmark it.  Behind the scenes it uses a Text-to-Speech service and to convert it 
and you have your choice of a male or female voice to read the article to you.  The service creates a private podcast 
feed just for you that you subscribe to - meaning in work in *any* podcast app.  And if your podcast app supports 
Apple CarPlay or Android Auto, you can even listen in the car.

Plans start at $5 / month for saving about 100 (25 per article) and 4 hours of playback a month.

*Disclaimer*: I am a former student of Michael Kennedy's Talk Python to Me training courses and Michael helped me 
by answering some questions when I first was starting out podcasting.  Michael did not alert me to his new offering, 
I found it on my own.