---
date: 2025-04-07
title: "Welcome Andy Piper"
linkTitle: "Episode 19 - April 7, 2025"
description: "Welcome Andy Piper"
author: Paul Cutler ([@prcutler](https://hachyderm.io/@prcutler))
---

## Welcome to the show

Tod and Paul welcome a special guest, Andy Piper.

Follow the show on [Mastodon](https://www.circuitpythonshow.com/@thebootloader/follow) or [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/thebootloader.net). 

## Listen to the podcast

Insert iframe from Castopod here.

## Show Notes

### Andy's Pick #1: Some cool project
Insert show notes here.

### Tod's Pick #1: Some cool project
Tod shares insert-link-here, a cool project by some cool people.

### OpenSpool and SpoolEase - NFC Filament Readers (Paul #1)

[OpenSpool](https://github.com/spuder/OpenSpool) and [SpoolEase](https://github.com/yanshay/SpoolEase) are two open source 
projects with a similar goal - to provide automatic filament detection for your 3D printer.  Bambu Labs filament, for example, includes 
an NFC tag that allows Bambu Slicer or OrcaSlicer to get information about the filament that's been loaded, including the color, 
temperature to print at, brand, and type of filmaent, such as PLA or PETG.  And with OpenSpool, it goes both ways - you can read Bambu 
filament details for other 3D printers.

Both projects are similar where you'll need to buy some compenents, including an ESP32 for OpenSpool and and ESP32-S3 for SpoolEase, 
along with an NFC reader and a few other miscellaneous parts.  Both projects have a complete bill of materials for you to bulid the project. 
You build the NFC tag reader with those parts and 3D print the case  for it. OpenSpool does 
[sell a kit on Tindie](https://www.tindie.com/products/spuder/openspool-mini/) with everything you need fully assembled for $66.00.

Once built, you can either create your own NFC tags and program each tag with your filament's settings, or use RFID enabled filament 
from Creality and Bambu.  Just scan the RFID tag and your filament settings are automatically loaded in Bambu Slicer or OrcaSlicer.

OpenSpool's roadmap has future integration planned with OctoPrint, Prusa Connect, Klipper and Moonraker, and more.

### Andy's Pick #2: Another cool project
Andy shares something he finds cool.

### Tod's Pick #2: Some cool project
Tod shares insert-link-here, a cool project by some cool people.

### Podcast Later (Paul #2)

You may be familiar with read it later apps like Instapaper or Pocket.  These apps allow you to save an article on 
the web to their service and read it later, with the ads and extra stuff you find on a website stripped off.  I've been 
using Pocket for years and love it.

Michael Kennedy, a Python Software Fellow and host of the Talk Python to Me podcast, has created a new service called 
[Podcast Later](https://podcastlater.com) that does something similar, except it creates a personal podcast for you 
of the articles you save on the web. You download one of the open source bookmarklets and when you come across an 
article you want to save, you just bookmark it.  Behind the scenes it uses a Text-to-Speech service and to convert it 
and you have your choice of a male or female voice to read the article to you.  The service creates a private podcast 
feed just for you that you subscribe to - meaning in work in *any* podcast app.  And if your podcast app supports 
Apple CarPlay or Android Auto, you can even listen in the car.

Plans start at $6 / month for saving about 100 pages (25 per article) and 4 hours of playback a month.

*Disclaimer*: I am a former student of Michael Kennedy's Talk Python to Me training courses and Michael helped me 
by answering some questions when I first was starting out podcasting.  Michael did not alert me to his new offering, 
I came across it myself.

